---
layout: post
title:  "The mouse package"
date:   2017-6-10 19:48:11 +0200
author: arcadio
categories: mouse packages
heropic: /pictures/mouse.jpg
---

The mouse is one of the most popular input methods in PC games, and thanks to the `mouse` package it is really easy to incorporate it into your game.

First of all, you will need to add the package as a dependency to your game. You can do it using the command line `clockwork-tools`, opening a command line in your project folder and typing

`clockwork add mouse`

Once you have added the dependency, you just need to spawn a `mouse` object in any level you want to depect keyboard input. Add it to the level like this:

{% highlight xml %}
<object name="mouse" type="mouse" x="0" y="0" ></object>
{% endhighlight %}

and you will be ready to start detecting mouse input!

The `mouse` object you just created will trigger the `click` event whenever the mouse is pressed or a touch screen is tapped. For example, this component will log the mouse clicks:

{% highlight js %}
    {
        name: "mouseLogger",
        events: [
            {
                name: "click", code: function (event) {
                    var mouse = this.engine.find("mouse");
                    this.engine.debug.log("Mouse clicked at (" + mouse.var.$x + "," + mouse.var.$y + ")");
                }
            }
        ]
    }
{% endhighlight %}

Just like that, you can add your own logic to process the mouse input.

Maybe, instead of knowing when the mouse is clicked and its coordinates, you are interested in detecting when the mouse hovers and clicks on other objects in your game. The mouse component provides a second way of detecting input more suited for those scenarios. If you also add the [pointBoxCollisionPackage](https://clockworkdev.github.io/ClockworkBlog/collisions/packages/2017/06/10/pointBoxCollision2D.html), you can detect when the mouse hovers and clicks specific objects, just like this:


{% highlight js %}
    {
        name: "button",
        events: [
            {
                name: "#collide", code: function (event) {
                    if (event.object.instanceOf("mouse") && event.shape2tag == "hover") {
                        //The mouse cursor is over the object
                    }
                    if (event.object.instanceOf("mouse") && event.shape2tag == "click") {
                        //The object has been clicked
                    }
                }
            }
        ],
        collision: {
            "box": [
                { "#tag": "hitbox", "x": 0, "y": 0, "w": 100, "h": 100 }
            ]
        }
    }
{% endhighlight %}

Finally, remember that if you need to remember something about how the component is used, you can quickly access the package documentation from Visual Studio Code, running the `Browse Clockwork package documentation` command.